[IMP] helpdesk: after sales updates (#7796)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/services/helpdesk/advanced/after_sales.rst

After-Sales services
====================

*After-Sales* services can be configured in the *Helpdesk* application for individual teams. Once

> enabled, users can issue refunds, process returns, generate coupons, and/or schedule repair and

Reviewer: Just an idea- these can all link to anchors in the doc. So the refunds takes you to the refund section, etc.

> field service interventions directly from a ticket.

Reviewer: for line 6, I don't think you need the and/or, I think just and is OK.

Set up the after-sales services
===============================

> Start by enabling the after-sales services on specific a *Helpdesk* team, by going to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start by enabling the after-sales services on a specific *Helpdesk* team, by going to
```

> :menuselection:`Helpdesk app --> Configuration --> Helpdesk Teams` and selecting which teams these
> services should be active on. Then, scroll to the :guilabel:`After-Sales` section on the team's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:menuselection:`Helpdesk app --> Configuration --> Helpdesk Teams` and click on the team the
services should be applied to. Then, scroll to the :guilabel:`After-Sales` section on the team's
```

I thought I could select multiple teams at first, then enable something. I just wanted to make it clear that you select one at a time, and repeat for all teams.

settings page, and choose which of the following options to enable:

- :guilabel:`Refunds`: issues credit notes to refund a customer, or adjust the remaining amount due.

> - :guilabel:`Coupons`: offers discounts and free products through an existing coupon program.

Reviewer: is it existing, or can it be created after? Is one of the following more accurate? Also, not sure if you want to go into the details for making a coupon program. 

offers discounts and free products through a coupon program.
or
offers discounts and free products through a coupon program, which needs to be created after enabling this option.

Reviewer: Ahh, I need to read the whole doc FIRST before starting my review =D . You can link to the coupon section here. There's a lot of opportunities to link to sections that are related to what is being said through the doc, if you want.

enabled, users can :ref:`issue refunds <helpdesk/advanced/after_sales/refunds>`, :ref:`generate
coupons <helpdesk/advanced/after_sales/coupons>`, :ref:`process returns
<helpdesk/advanced/after_sales/returns>`, and :ref:`schedule repairs
<helpdesk/advanced/after_sales/repairs>` or :ref:`field service interventions
<helpdesk/advanced/after_sales/field>` directly from a ticket.

Set up the after-sales services
===============================

Start by enabling the after-sales services on a specific *Helpdesk* team, by going to
:menuselection:`Helpdesk app --> Configuration --> Helpdesk Teams` and click on the team the
services should be applied to. Then, scroll to the :guilabel:`After-Sales` section on the team's
settings page, and choose which of the following options to enable:

- :guilabel:`Refunds`: issues credit notes to refund a customer, or adjust the remaining amount due.
- :guilabel:`Coupons`: offers discounts and free products through an existing coupon program.
- :guilabel:`Returns`: initiates a product return from a customer through a reverse transfer.
- :guilabel:`Repairs`: creates repair orders for broken or faulty products.

> - :guilabel:`Field Service`: plans onsite intervention through the *Field Service* application.

Author: I do explain the project field later in the doc (lines 263-265, 272-274), I don't know if it is necessary to do it right away up here when the feature is just being introduced.

remaining amount due. While they are usually created through the *Accounting* or *Invoicing*
applications, they can be created through a *Helpdesk* ticket, as well.

.. important::
   Invoices must be posted before a credit note can be generated.

To create a credit note, navigate to a ticket on the :menuselection:`Helpdesk app`, and click the

> :guilabel:`Refund` button in the top-left corner of the ticket dashboard. This opens a
> :guilabel:`Refund` pop-up window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Refund` button in the top-left corner of the ticket form. This opens a
:guilabel:`Refund` pop-up window.
```

not sure if form is the right word, but the refund button is on the individual ticket instead of the dashboard.

constraints of a coupon. *Coupon Programs* are configured in the *Sales*, *Point of Sale*, or
*Website* applications.

.. important::
   The *eCommerce* module must be installed to create coupon codes from the *Website*.

To generate a coupon, open a *Helpdesk* ticket and click on the :guilabel:`Coupon` button in the
top-left corner. Select an option from the :guilabel:`Coupon Program` drop-down menu.

.. image:: after_sales/after-sales-generate-coupon.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of a coupon generation window.

.. note::
   To create a new :guilabel:`Coupon Program`, navigate to :menuselection:`Sales app --> Products
   --> Discount & Loyalty` and click :guilabel:`New`. To make the program available to share with
   *Helpdesk* customers, the :guilabel:`Program Type` **must** be set to :guilabel:`Coupons`. This
   generates single-use coupon codes that grant immediate access to rewards and discounts.

  Coupon programs can also be created in the *Point of Sale* application or *Website* application.
  More information on creating discount and loyalty programs can be found :doc:`here
  </applications/sales/sales/products_prices/loyalty_discount>`.

> 

Reviewer: I remember someone editing a doc of mine saying we should use the doc name (or close to it) instead of "this doc" or "here". Just an idea- not necessary.

.. seealso::

>    :doc:`/applications/finance/accounting/customer_invoices/credit_notes`

Reviewer 2: Please update doc paths to be relative
```suggestion
   :doc:`../../../finance/accounting/customer_invoices/credit_notes`
```

   the email. Additional recipients can be added to the email as well, in the :guilabel:`Recipients`
   field of the :guilabel:`Compose Email` pop-up window. If an expiration date was selected for the
   code, it is included in the message template.

   .. image:: after_sales/after-sales-coupon-email.png
      :align: center
      :alt: View of an email draft window with coupon code.

Click :guilabel:`Get Share Link` to generate a link to send directly to the customer. Doing so opens
a :guilabel:`Share Coupons` pop-up window. Click the :guilabel:`Copy` button next to the
:guilabel:`Share Link` field and paste the results to any communication with the customer. When the
customer uses the link, the code is automatically applied to their cart.

After a :guilabel:`Coupon Code` has been generated, a :guilabel:`Coupons` smart button is added to
the top of the ticket; click the smart button to view the coupon code, expiration date, and
additional information.

.. image:: after_sales/after-sales-coupon-smart-button.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of the smart buttons on a ticket focusing on the coupon button.

.. seealso::

>    - `Coupons <https://www.odoo.com/slides/slide/coupon-programs-640?fullscreen=1>`_

Reviewer 2: This URL does not seem to be valid, can you please check this?
<img width="619" alt="Screenshot 2024-03-05 at 10 22 20 AM" src="https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/36018073/2d36fcd8-fde2-46da-b1a7-9fdcbeced2e5">

>    - :doc:`/applications/sales/sales/products_prices/loyalty_discount`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - :doc:`../../../sales/sales/products_prices/loyalty_discount`
```

.. seealso::
   :doc:`/applications/finance/accounting/customer_invoices/credit_notes`

.. _helpdesk/advanced/after_sales/coupons:

Generate coupons from a ticket
==============================

Coupons can be used to alter the price of products or orders. Conditional rules define the usage
constraints of a coupon. *Coupon Programs* are configured in the *Sales*, *Point of Sale*, or
*Website* applications.

.. important::
   The *eCommerce* module must be installed to create coupon codes from the *Website*.

To generate a coupon, open a *Helpdesk* ticket and click on the :guilabel:`Coupon` button in the
top-left corner. Select an option from the :guilabel:`Coupon Program` drop-down menu.

.. image:: after_sales/after-sales-generate-coupon.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of a coupon generation window.

.. note::
   To create a new :guilabel:`Coupon Program`, navigate to :menuselection:`Sales app --> Products

>    --> Discount & Loyalty` and click :guilabel:`New`. To make the program available to share with

Reviewer: In one of my runbots, I didn't see the "Discount & Loyalty' option in the drop-down. I am not sure what needs to be set to make that visible- but it could be mentioned if you want.

Author: I checked four runbots and two demo dbs and it was there on all of them, so I do not know what caused that issue, but I am going to assume it was a problem with that particular runbot and not the menu itself.

   :align: center
   :alt: View of a Helpdesk ticket with the return button highlighted.

.. important::
   The :guilabel:`Return` button only appears on a ticket if the customer has a recorded delivery in
   the database.

Select a :guilabel:`Sales Order` or :guilabel:`Delivery to Return` to identify the products that
need to be returned.

By default, the quantity matches the validated quantity from the delivery order. Update the
:guilabel:`Quantity` field if necessary. To remove a line, click the :guilabel:`🗑️ (trash can)`
icon.

Select a :guilabel:`Return Location` where the items should be directed after the return is

> completed.

Reviewer: Not sure if you want, but perhaps a tip box can be created explaining that if the return is for a faulty product, it can go to a quarantined area/inspection area, etc. Just mention as a 'best practices' kind of thing. Totally optional!

.. image:: after_sales/after-sales-reverse-transfer.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of a reverse transfer creation page.

Click :guilabel:`Return` to confirm the return. This generates a new warehouse operation for the
incoming returned products. A :guilabel:`Return` smart button is then added to the top of the

> ticket.

Reviewer: After returning, I am seeing the WH/IN/00033 (a return order) and not the ticket. Might want to mention to get back to the ticket with the breadcrumb menu or just to go back to the ticket).

>    :align: center

Reviewer: Only one ticket in two runbots had the return button visible- all the others didn't. Not sure what the parameters are, but maybe mention that? I didn't even see a product on the ticket- but then I saw it on the return pop-up, so I couldn't really verify by looking at the ticket if the return button should have been there.

Author: There is an Important admonition block on line 171 that mentions this. The Return button will only appear if there is a recorded delivery in the database for this customer.

   :alt: View of a Helpdesk ticket with the return button highlighted.

.. important::
   The :guilabel:`Return` button only appears on a ticket if the customer has a recorded delivery in
   the database.

> Select a :guilabel:`Sales Order` or :guilabel:`Delivery to Return` to identify the products that

Author: I do think this section is self-explanatory. I mention later that you can edit or remove lines to ensure that only the necessary product information is included.

 - :guilabel:`Customer`: this field carries over from the ticket, though a new contact can been
   selected from the drop-down menu.
 - :guilabel:`Product to Repair`: if a product was specified in the :guilabel:`Product` field on the
   ticket, it is added to this field automatically. If not, click into the field to select a product
   from the drop-down.
 - :guilabel:`Lot/Serial`: this field is only visible if the products being repaired are tracked via
   lot or serial numbers.
 - :guilabel:`Return`: return order from which the product to be repaired comes from.
 - :guilabel:`Under Warranty`: if this box is checked, the sale price for all products from the
   repair order are set to zero.
 - :guilabel:`Scheduled Date`: this field defaults to the current date. To select a new date, click
   into the field and select a date using the drop-down calendar.
 - :guilabel:`Responsible`: assign a user from the drop-down menu to manage the repair.
 - :guilabel:`Tags`: click into this field to assign an existing tag or create a new one. Multiple
   tags can be assigned.

If parts are required for the repair, they can be added in the :guilabel:`Parts` tab. Additional

> information for the internal repair team can be added to the :guilabel:`Repair Notes` tab.

Reviewer: Not sure if you want to explain the fields in the Miscellaneous tab.

Author: I don't think it is necessary, there is just one field, and changing it to a different operation means this is no longer a "repair", and would end up causing far more issues. In this specific case, I do not think adding any more information will be of any benefit.

Once the form is complete, click :guilabel:`Confirm Repair`. To create, edit, and send a quote for
this repair, click :guilabel:`Create Quotation`.

A :guilabel:`Repairs` smart button is added to the ticket, linking to the repair order.

.. image:: after_sales/after-sales-repair-smart-button.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of smart buttons focusing on repair button.

.. tip::
   Once a user creates a repair order from a *Helpdesk* ticket, they can access it through the
   ticket's :guilabel:`Repair` smart button, or from a link in the chatter, even if they do not have
   access rights to the *Repair* application.

Create a field service task from a ticket
=========================================

On-site interventions can be planned from a ticket and managed through the *Field Service*
application. Customers with :doc:`portal access </applications/general/users/portal>` are able to
track the progress of a *Field Service* task just as they would a *Helpdesk* ticket.

.. tip::
   To change the default *Field Service* project for the team, go to :menuselection:`Helpdesk app
   --> Configuration --> Helpdesk Teams` to select a :guilabel:`Team`. Scroll to the

>    :guilabel:`After-Sales` section and choose new project under :guilabel:`Field Service`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :guilabel:`After-Sales` section and choose a project under :guilabel:`Field Service`.
```

I only see Field Service - I assume that is the default one, and the one that is recommended to be used? If not, you can expand this part.

 - :guilabel:`Customer`: this field carries over from the ticket, though a new contact can been
   selected from the drop-down menu.
 - :guilabel:`Product to Repair`: if a product was specified in the :guilabel:`Product` field on the
   ticket, it is added to this field automatically. If not, click into the field to select a product
   from the drop-down.
 - :guilabel:`Lot/Serial`: this field is only visible if the products being repaired are tracked via
   lot or serial numbers.
 - :guilabel:`Return`: return order from which the product to be repaired comes from.
 - :guilabel:`Under Warranty`: if this box is checked, the sale price for all products from the
   repair order are set to zero.
 - :guilabel:`Scheduled Date`: this field defaults to the current date. To select a new date, click
   into the field and select a date using the drop-down calendar.
 - :guilabel:`Responsible`: assign a user from the drop-down menu to manage the repair.
 - :guilabel:`Tags`: click into this field to assign an existing tag or create a new one. Multiple
   tags can be assigned.

If parts are required for the repair, they can be added in the :guilabel:`Parts` tab. Additional

> information for the internal repair team can be added to the :guilabel:`Repair Notes` tab.

Author: As I mentioned previously, I think it would cause more confusion than it would provide actual benefit.  There is just one field, and changing it to a different operation means this is no longer a "repair".

same *Field Service* project that was identified on the team's settings page. To change the project
for this specific task, select one from the :guilabel:`Project` field.

If applicable, select a :guilabel:`Worksheet Template` from the drop-down menu.

.. note::
   *Field Service Worksheets* are reports that detail the work completed during an on-site task.
   When work is completed, worksheets are signed by the customer to confirm the job is done and the
   customer is satisfied.

   If the *Field Service* project assigned to the *Helpdesk* team has worksheets enabled, and has a
   default template assigned, that template automatically appears in the :guilabel:`Worksheet
   Template` drop-down. Even so, the field can be edited, and another template can be selected.

   If the *Field Service* project does **not** have worksheets enabled, the :guilabel:`Worksheet
   Template` field does not appear on the :guilabel:`Create a Field Service task` pop-up window.

Click :guilabel:`Create Task` or :guilabel:`Create & View Task`.

.. image:: after_sales/after-sales-field-service-create.png
   :align: center
   :alt: View of a Field Service task creation page.

> After the task is created, a :guilabel:`Tasks` smart button is be added to the ticket, linking the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After the task is created, a :guilabel:`Tasks` smart button is added to the ticket, linking the
```

.. seealso::

>    :doc:`/applications/sales/sales/products_prices/returns`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   :doc:`../../../sales/sales/products_prices/returns`
```
